In the last lecture we have fixed the problem that the user I.D. haven't been automatically added for
the new blog posts.
But then after we have fixed that we noticed a problem that when we take a look at the list of the blog
posts it happens that the blog posts that were most recently added are at the bottom.
So we would like them to be seen first.
So what we can do is inside our post controller we can sort those blog posts.
So we are fetching blog posts with comments.
And this returns our query builder so we can add some further parts to this query to use to sort the
blog posts we can just use order by and specify the created art field which is the time where the blog
post was created and sought by descending order.
So the newest will be shown first.
So save the changes and let's see what we have right now.
So after scrolling to the to the top we can see that the newest blog post is shown first but this might
have some problems.
This solution is not perfect.
Imagine that most of the time for specific things like model like blog post models you most probably
would like to display the newest blog posts first.
So it should be kind of a default behavior when you fetch the blog posts using either the all static
method or by construct constructing a query with relations like we do here.
So instead of each time adding this ordering or imagine that you might like to add some more constraints
when fetching blog posts and you also would like them to be a difficult default behavior.
So what we can do here and what will solve our problem is I think called query scopes so we will start
by seeing and learning about the global query scopes.
Now we can define global query scopes two ways.
The first way is to use our closure and the second one is to define a specific class.
So let's go with the second one.
Let's create a new namespace inside the app folder called scopes and inside it create a new file and
let's call it latest scope BHP.
So as the name suggests we'll create a query scope called latest.
So we will we are starting with an empty file so we have to add a namespace which is up scopes and define
a class called latest scope
now every scope class has to implement a specific interface and the name of the name of this interface
is scope.
So if you are using the Visual Studio Extension just to your code extensions that I am using this there
is a lecture about that you can get this automatically important because it suggests what's the interface
or class existing with that name and what namespace it is defined in.
So you can just press enter and you can see I have the import automatically added.
Now before I explain what those global scopes or query scopes actually do and how they do it let's see
how we can implement a query scope.
So each query scope has a public function called apply which accepts two arguments The Builder which
is the query builder and the model.
Additionally you can add type things here.
So this would be a builder so to get on out to Matic import.
We can see which one is that it's illuminate database eloquent builder so that's this one and this class
this argument is of type model.
So let's see what models do we have.
There is only one fortunately.
Now what we can do here is we can modify our default queries for older models that are using this global
scopes.
So what that means is let's see an example.
So for example we're at the order by to the query builder that will order by the created out date descending
order.
So newest first if you do not remember created art is a column which we get out to magically added for
the models that we use timestamps for and we do that for blog posts and comments too.
Now creating this class won't do anything we have to register it first.
And we have to do that for every model that should use this global query scope.
So you do that inside the boot static method of a specific model.
So you do static at global scope and here you have to create a new instance of the scope class that
you would like to use.
So that's the new latest scope also mind that you statement was ultimately added for me.
Now we just have to save the changes.
And now let's go to our list of blog posts.
So now you can see that the blog posts are ordered by the newest first.
And if you will go back to the post controller you can see that we aren't adding that order by anywhere
inside this query so what global scopes do is they add something to the default queries that gets executed.
For example if you would use blog post all to fetch all the blog posts from the blog post table if the
latest scope will be added to this model it would it would always modify those queries to include what
is defined inside the latest scope.
So this would be ultimately ordered by the created date in descending order.
So that's the first simple example.
But what we can even improve in this case since we might use this for different models not only for
the blog posts is we can use the model created at constant because what this does.
It defines our name as you can see public const create a dot.
It defines default name for the timestamp which means where name of the column of where when the model
was created.
So instead of using string here we can use the constants so if someone would modify this field name
for any model which they can do by overwriting this constant we make sure that this code will work for
every model.
Now what you need to know about the global query scopes is that by appending a global query scope to
a model like we did with the blog post will make Lavell at this part of the query to all the queries
related with that model in explicitly.
So you will never really have to tell Lavell to add this order by statement to every model that has
this global query scope Lavell will do that for you.
So for some cases it seems like a good solution but in the next lecture I will show you why sometimes
it's not a good solution and why you should rely on local query scopes instead.
Of course we'll also see how to implement a local query scope and how how to use that explicitly.
So we'll see that in the next lecture.